for sahaja Yogi's now is very easy to
find out if something is real or unreal
it is truth or untruth it is love or
hatred only through vibrations you can
but going beyond - I am saying beyond
that one has to know what are these
vibration and what are they made of
what is the subtly subtle force which is
behind those vibrations we call it this
paramchaitanya all right but I'm saying
is over what happens to you when you get
paramchaitanya is something to be
understood the subtitles as I said we
are made of five elements right so when
you get your awakening when the
Kundalini reaches Ostara and opens out
your a fontanel bone area you become one
with the divine power then this divine
power itself starts flowing through a
connection is established now when she
it starts flowing through you this
Shakti it starts going through then what
happens the subtle part we should
understand the subtle part is like this
that these five elements we are made of
these vibrations gradually start
breaking into the circular form of which
they are made
so the first thing such a person has is
the breaks is he as it is said that what
is God said also in the Bible the word
is God now what is this word word is a
silent we can say silent commandment we
can call it like that but from that word
comes according to Indian philosophy is
another thing that we call as Bindu
or we can say a word becomes nada
is a sound and then it becomes the Bindu
means one one small dot frequency and
then from this dot you see all these
five elements start coming one after
another the first element that comes out
is light beige light the first element
that comes out so the essence of the
first element is light we call it age
stages is written of course in Sanskrit
but we should understand that how the
light pervades sahaja yoga so much and
you see the light order everywhere so
the first element which is light and the
lights subtle thing is we can say
enlightenment you can see but
enlightenment has another meaning so we
can say stage stage for example a person
who gets realization has a face which is
very radiant so you can say the radiance
the radiance is the subtlety of the
light so this radiance starts showing on
your face
radiance start expressing itself and
with that radiance people get impressed
and they start thinking something
special about this personality which has
radiance now you have seen my
photographs also wherever they are
many a times you find lots of lighter
that is nothing but the light in me is
giving radiance because the light
becomes subtler when the light becomes
subtler in me light light is one of the
elements when it becomes subtler then it
gives radiance and so this is the subtle
growth within you that takes place your
faces also starts shining they too have
radiance and they too have a kind of a
different complexion I would say this
radiance is to be understood is the
subtle of the light of which we are made
right in the gross manner then after
this from the light comes the second
thing which we call as why you in
Sanskrit meaning the air so the air that
we have which is gross air what is the
subtle affair is this cool breeze that
you get the cool breeze is the subtle of
that air so the subtle of what you
understand as cool breeze is what we
call vibrations the subtle of that is
air which is a part and parcel of our
making so this cool breeze is the second
thing that you start getting subtler and
subtler when your growths take place all
these certain things start expressing
them it's not only that you get
vibrations but you get the cool breeze
and that is the subtle of air that has
been
then comes the water
we are also made of water what is the
subtle of water is
sometimes English language you know
becomes little short of expression but
they call it I mean which makes the skin
hard skin soft the skin becomes softer
this is another sign of a realized soul
that his there's something they use
isn't it to soften the face but then a
person who is a realized soul becomes
very soft force very delicate when he
talks to somebody and his voice there is
one or I should say there is cousin of
near Pawnee Hindi maketh a Pawnee owner
there to have that flow what are the
flow and coolness of the water so that
is the another subject thing that should
be expressed in your behavior on your
skin on your dealings with others that
you should be like the water which is
mobile which is cooling which is
soothing which is cleansing so this also
becomes a part and parcel of your being
once you become a realized soul with
this water you have also another thing
we call it as ugly means the fire so you
also have fire but is a very silent
right it doesn't burn anybody but it
burns all the wrong things within
whatever wrong things you have it burns
and it burns the wrong things in other
people's for example a person comes with
a great anger towards him what happens
that this anger
become schooled up with a fire that is
there moreover a realized soul cannot
get burnt fire cannot burn the burning
cannot come to him it's very important
to understand also if you are doing
something wrong it may burn you but if
you are a good sahaja yogi and I should
say a perfect sir to be fire will never
burn we have an example of Sita ji that
she went into the fire perish nothing
burnt so this is what one has to
understand that once you get to the
subtleties of the fire so the fire and
the water both of them become sort of
divine for example the water which you
touch
what are you drain whatever you put your
hand in the water the water becomes
vibrated means what the subtlety of the
water comes in it the coolness curing
power also comes in that water so when
it becomes subtler all these powers
start showing which you can see for
yourself
you don't have to experiment then the
lastly is the Mother Earth its most
important is Mother Earth it's a
photograph you might see which was taken
in Russia in my daughter where the
Kundalini is in the mother earth that's
clear
it's there and it is the mother earth
which shows for example I have seen
flowers if you keep them in my room they
block blossom they can become very big
like that never people have seen such
big flowers sometimes they see I'm doing
nothing I am just sitting down and what
happens to the flowers see now there
principle of the mother earth works the
subtle mother earth phase works it's a
mother and that gives you all the
nourishment and makes you grow healthy
and this is how this subtlety works of
the mother earth mother earth is the one
who is a giver of birth through all
these flowers and all these trees and
all that but it also plays a big part in
us it's not only the mother earth that
exists without our connection and we do
not respect the mother earth we have
polluted it we have done all kinds of
things they remove the trees and you
have made a mess out of her but she's
our mother and so many subtle things of
this Mother Earth coming to us one of
them is gravity a person becomes very
attractive not in the physical sense but
in the spiritual sense such a person
attracts others they feel attracted and
they feel that something special is
about this person this is one of the
quality of the mother earth she had not
kept us attracted we would have won
enough with her movement and also other
qualities of the mother earth also start
manifesting within us and we become very
I should say extremely tolerant patient
person tolerant condition extremely
tolerant and patient but if you are not
tolerant if you are hot-tempered and all
that that mother has principle has not
expressed it look at the mother at how
much she tolerates ever nonsense how
many wrong things we do against her but
still she tolerates only after
realization you are connected with
reality
and you can get the understanding of all
these subtleties working through you why
I'm telling you this because I want you
to know and recognize yourself to
understand what you are what you have
what once you recognize yourself and
understand yourself you can do a lot I
am here to give you self-realization and
the understanding that whatever you have
got you must accept as a challenge take
it up as a challenge and you will be
amazed how you will be helped and how
you will get the results
Sahaj doesn't mean only that you get
spontaneous realization it also means
you get spontaneity the whole nature get
spontaneity
all those subtle things that I've told
you they all get spontaneous and they
work it out if you take to introspection
will be surprised to say yes you have
these powers and you can do wonders so I
bless you all
please develop those subtle things
within you they are already there you
don't have to do anything only
understand and locate thank you very
much